Then after that, Tsasum Lingpa, who was renowned as the emanation of the again Sangeesu, who came
at around 17 centuries.
According to Kannada, when we are trying to find out exactly when he came, Tsasum Lingpa came
around toward the end of 17th century.
16th century. No, 17th century. Yeah, and toward the end of the 16th century, we go to around 1684
or around that time.
Around that time, it was 16, 19th, early 19th, 19th century. He was born not so far from where Ken
ki Pardeshar Rinpoche and myself also were born, not so far from where we've come from.
And he always said, he was born on the slopes of the circular mountain of the Chovozetia. So it's
the other side of it, the northern side of where we're born.
Born and he was born there. He was born as the farmers, all the kind of nomad families.
And when he passed the bone and then he was, I mean, there's so many remarkable signs and all these
things, one after another, but then around the edge, like in the 10s, 12s, I think he joined.
I think in the area that must be close to the like, to the one gullible monasteries, he joined
there. But however, in the dream, in the region, and all that has so many different beautiful
dreams, and many times, some of them, some of them are vulnerable and so forth, from one after
another, all those things.
And that he has something to do more, more than he has to be joined in that monasteries. But
however, he stayed there, I think, for at least four or five years, years, around the 16th or
around the 17th, then he, he, he had the game, great dream, dream of the Yixin Surya.
In particular, Yixin Surya, he dreamed, and Yixin Surya came in a dream with many other Dakinis.
And I think many of them, maybe you all, of course, you all know Dakini. Dakini is a wisdom lady,
enlightenment ladies, that appeared in the dream.
And Yixin Surya is one of the principal wisdom ladies, ladies, and she, she came, and she said in
the dream, oh, my son is now completely obscured and become dirty, become dirty.
And he and others bought so much water to him, and they owned the walls, and they're pouring water
to him, all, and they're washing and taking bath, and that he kind of almost dreamed the whole
night that he's taking bath, and giving the bath, and the cleansing and the death.
And then, when he woke up, already his day light came, day light's day, woke up, woke up. And then
he thought how to do, to leave this monastery, monastery and places, and finally decided he can't
leave, leave this monastery normally, but he has already nature of quite the creative wisdom
systems.
So, therefore, he decided he's going to leave this monastery, act as crazies. So, he wears all the
different kind of crazy clothes, and he's shotting, wearing the monks' robes and different kind of
lay person, lay person clothes and monks' robes, joined together, and then he made the big noise,
noise, and then he started, he left, he left the monastery.
And then he discovered post-thema, post-thema teachings not so far from our birthplace, known as am
nyamutru, he discovered that.
And afterward, then he went to manipulate the discovery, but then also, same time, he met his
personal teacher, teacher, root teacher, known as Kojam Trini Khanda, who became his root teacher,
who was one of the great masters of the rajj, or the dronkaji lineages, and performed, received
many teachings, and particularly the teachings on the thalam, in the thumu, he, of course, he
already very advanced in light beings.
And as the moment he received those teachings, the moment he put those in practice, he become very
advanced on the thalam and thumu practices, in particular, long practices, wind-energy practices,
and then he started beginning revealing thema teachings one after another in many different places
throughout Tibet, because through his wisdom, wind-energy power, he didn't really have any troubles
,
it was difficult to go to those places, and he began to reword thema teachings, different locations
, and therefore, Thasang Mumbai is one of the renowned great masters, who reword thema teachings
from the objects, from the rock, and from the different places, like rocks, mountains, glaciers,
lakes, and, yeah, from those places.
So Thasang Mumbai is one of the renowned, or become one of the renowned, masters of the therma
revelation, particularly from the objects and the places.
So that is what Thasang Mumbai did. Among that, then this teaching, what we are going to follow, is
one of his revelation teachings.
This thema teaching is revealed from Southern Tibet, directly south direction of our birthplace.
Places is near, in the modern time, we say this is close to the bhemmahu, very close, always at the
entrance or threshold of the bhemmahu, and that is called bhemmahyathal, a sacred lotus cake,
named from that cake, then Thasang Mumbai reword these thema teachings, with about three hundred
his disciples or audience came when he reword these teachings.
And when he reword these teachings, because Thasang Mumbai always mentioning which year that he
discovered, and which element of that year that he discovered, Thasang Mumbai always teach that.
Write that down and then, and then also, particularly this time, he wrote the day and the month
when he discovered these teachings.
So when we tried to back a chord with Western calendars, and then we found out that Thasang Mumbai
discovered this kyen'eze, the Awa lokrihora practices in Southern Tibet, in the cake of lotus, on
1721, July 18, in the morning.
No, it's really sad. It's sad, really, July. So how we found out? Because it said that iron oxia,
if you look at the sadhana, the iron oxia, so when iron oxia comes around 17, as I said, 1690s,
when the iron oxia, 1690s he was born, then after that, when is iron oxia? When we look into the
calendar, then it's 1721.
Then he said monkey month and the 25th day in the morning with about 300 audience that he
discovered.
So when we look into the monkey month that year, there's generally, according to bed, there's two
monkey months, which is the fifth month and the sixth month, which always falls in summer.
July or August, it depends. The fifth month changes. They change. So follow with the first monkey
month according to that system, then, as I said, we found July the Dakini day falls.
July 18, July 18th, Dakini day. He said in the morning. So morning of the July 18th, 1721, that's
how we got discovered.